# Quick start

## Preparation:

1. Install the necessary third-party libraries
   
   Please refer to the [software dependencies section](https://lotus.filecoin.io/lotus/install/linux/#software-dependencies) in the Lotus documentation for this step.

2. Clone the repository of Damocles

    ```
    git clone https://github.com/ipfs-force-community/damocles.git
    ```

3. Compile components of Damocles

    ```
    cd damocles
    make all
    ```

    After building, there will be two executable files `damocles-worker` and `damocles-manager` under the `./dist/bin` directory.

4. Distribute the executable files to the machines where they are needed

5. Distribute `./damocles-worker/create-cgroup.sh` to the machines where `damocles-worker `will run, and execute it as the system user that will run `damocles-worker`.

    This will create the corresponding `cgroup` for that user so that `damocles-worker` can allocate hardware resources for its external worker processes.

## Production mode

### damocles-manager

1. Initialize work directory.

    ```
    ./dist/bin/damocles-manager daemon init
    ```

2. Configure the default configuration file `~/.damocles-manager/sector-manager.cfg` as needed. 

    Please refer to the documentation [*Configuration of damocles-manager*](./04.damocles-manager-config.md) for the configuration items, functionalities, and configuration methods.

3. Create a miner (optional, if you already have one, skip this step)

    ```bash
    $ ./damocles-manager util miner create \
    --from=<OWNER_ADDRESS> \
    --owner=<OWNER_ADDRESS> \
    --worker=<WORKER_ADDRESS> \
    --sector-size=32GiB
    ```

    You will get the following return value.

    ```
    miner actor: f0xxx9 (f2drcv6746m5ehwxxxxxy)	   
    ```

    `miner actor: f0xxx9` in the result is the ID of the miner you just created.


    > ⚠️Warning: Make sure that the `--from` address have sufficient balance so that the message can be successfully confirmed.


4. Start `damocles-manager`

    ```bash
    ./dist/bin/damocles-manager daemon run
    ```

    > ⚠️Warning: You need to set both the `Miners.Proof. Enabled` field in the config file and the `--miner` flag in the above command to `true` if you want to enable winningPost. Similarly, you need to set both the `Miners.PoSt.Enabled` in the config file and the `--poster` flag in the starting command to `true` to enable windowPoSt.

### damocles-worker

1. Create the parent directory of `sealing_thread.location`. `damocles-worker` will automatically initialize each `sealing_thread.location` directory on startup.

2. (Optional) Download the computation parameter files.

    ```bash
    ./dist/bin/damocles-manager util fetch-params 512MiB
    ```

3. (Optional) Create [hugepage memory files friendly to NUMA](./15.damocles-worker_PC1_HugeTLB_Pages_支持.md#damocles-worker-pc1-hugetlb-pages-%E6%94%AF%E6%8C%81).

4. Plan the CPU cores, NUMA zones, ect. for each stage and complete the configuration file as needed.

    Configuration fields, functions, and configuration methods can be found in the documentation [*Configurations of damocles-worker*](./03.damocles-worker-config.md).

5. Start damocles-worker.

    ```
    ./dist/bin/damocles-worker daemon -c /path/to/damocles-worker.toml
    ```


## Mock mode (for developers only)

By default, you can start a set of `mock` instances on a single machine through a series of commands.

### damocles-manager

Use the command

```
./dist/bin/damocles-manager mock --miner=10000 --sector-size=2KiB
```

to start a `damocles-manager` service that simulates allocating `2KiB` sectors to an SP with `ActorID` of `t010000`.

This step can also be accomplished by running the `./mock/start_manager.sh` script in the code directory.

### damocles-worker

1. Create and initialize local storage and initialize remote storage.

   ```
   ./dist/bin/damocles-worker store sealing-init -l ./mock-tmp/store1 ./mock-tmp/store2 ./mock-tmp/store3
   ./dist/bin/damocles-worker store file-init -l ./mock-tmp/remote
   ```

    This step can also be accomplished by running the `./mock/cleanup_store.sh` script in the code directory.

2. Start `damocles-worker` with `mock` configuration.

    ```
    ./dist/bin/damocles-worker daemon -c ./damocles-worker/assets/damocles-worker.mock.toml
    ```

    This step can also be accomplished by running the `./mock/start_worker.sh` script in the code directory.