# Custom Algorithm and Storage Schemes

## Overview

While providing a robust computing power production solution, Damocles hopes to allow maximum flexibility for users in configuring and customizing the product based on their actual needs. This includes custom algorithms and storage schemes. 

For example, users can

- Use open-source optimized algorithms
- Purchase licensed proprietary algorithms
- Purchase outsourced computation services
- Use object storage (such as S3) as their own persistence storage solution

and integrate these custom schemes into Damocles at very low costs.

## Usage

SPs and developers need to pay attention to different aspects of custom algorithms and storage schemes. We will explain them separately.

### For SPs

 SPs only need to focus on how to integrate custom contents into the computing power production process. This can be divided into several parts:



### ext-processors on damocles-worker

To integrate ext-processors on damocles-worker, follow these steps:

1. Prepare executable files that conform to the interaction protocol

2. Under `[[processors.{stage_name}]] ` blocks in the damocles-worker configuration file, correctly configure the stages to enable, executable file locations, parameters, environment variables, etc.

3. Start damocles-worker and check if the custom external processors work as expected.

For more details, please refer to:

- [Configuration Example for damocles-worker External Executor](./07.damocles-worker-external-executor.md)

- [Configurations of damocles-worker](./03.damocles-worker-config.md)



### ext-provers on damocles-manager

On damocles-manager, algorithm customization only involves the WinningPoSt and WindowPoSt parts, which can be customized via ext-provers. Their mechanisms and usage methods are very similar to ext-processors.

For more details, please refer to:

[Standalone PoSter node](./09.poster-node.md)

### Custom Storage Schemes

Custom storage schemes can be completely non-filesystem-based solutions like object storage or simplified versions of traditional large-scale filesystems such as simplifying NFS mounts to a lightweight custom data access method.



Compared to ext-processors and ext-provers, supporting custom storage is more complex, mainly because

1. Support for custom storage involves multiple scenarios, such as perpetuating data during sector sealing, accessing raw data when upgrading sectors, WinningPoSt, WindowPoSt, etc.

2. Both damocles-manager and damocles-worker involve some interactions with storage instances.

In simple terms, to use a custom storage scheme, you at least need to configure

1. A `transfer` stage ext-processor that supports this storage scheme for `damocles-worker` 

2. A WinningPoSt and WindowPoSt ext-prover that supports this storage scheme for `damocles-manager`

3. An objstore plugin that supports this storage scheme for `damocles-manager` (refer to [Configuration of damocles-manager](./04.damocles-manager-config.md) for details)

With the above in place, Damocles can work with the customized storage scheme.

### For developers

For developers, the most important thing is to develop suitable custom components like external processors and Golang plugins that conform to the interfaces and protocols defined by Damocles.

#### ext-processors / ext-provers

From a development perspective, ext-processors and ext-provers are the same kind of implementation used in different scenarios.

They are basically an executable file that

- Interact with parent process via stdin/stdout
- Conform to the interaction protocol and data formats defined by [vc-processors](https://crates.io/crates/vc-processors)



Developers can learn the basics from these documents:

1. To understand the principles and mechanisms, refer to [vc-processors: examples](https://github.com/ipfs-force-community/damocles/tree/vc-processors/v0.1.5/damocles-worker/vc-processors/examples)
2. To implement algorithms for customized stages, refer to [vc-processors: builtin/processors](https://github.com/ipfs-force-community/damocles/blob/vc-processors/v0.1.5/damocles-worker/vc-processors/src/builtin/processors.rs).
3. To package implemented algorithms into executables, refer to [vc-worker: subcommand/processors](https://github.com/ipfs-force-community/damocles/blob/vc-processors/v0.1.5/damocles-worker/src/bin/damocles-worker/processor/mod.rs).



#### damocles-manager objstore plugin

A `damocles-manager`'s objstore plugin essentially is a Go language plugin that:

- Meet the [Go language plugin](https://pkg.go.dev/plugin) requirements and constraints
- Conform to interfaces and semantics defined by [damocles-manager objstore](https://github.com/ipfs-force-community/damocles/blob/main/manager-plugin/objstore/objstore.go#L50-L61)


Developers can learn the basics of the development process from these documents:

1. To understand the `damocles-manager` plugin framework, refer to [these documents](https://github.com/ipfs-force-community/damocles/tree/main/manager-plugin)

2. To understand interface definitions and working mechanisms, refer to [damocles-manager objstore: Store](https://github.com/ipfs-force-community/damocles/blob/main/manager-plugin/objstore/objstore.go#L50-L61) and [objstore: spi](https://github.com/ipfs-force-community/damocles/blob/main/manager-plugin/spi.go#L69-L73)

3. To understand example implementations, refer to [damocles-manager: plugin/fsstore](https://github.com/ipfs-force-community/damocles/tree/main/manager-plugin/examples/fsstore)