# Using metrics in damocles-manager

Damocles uses metrics to record performance indicators during execution. This article mainly depicts the meaning of the metrics in `damocles-manager`. There are many materials on how to use metrics for process monitoring, so we won't describe them excessively here.

## exporter info
`damocles-manager` uses the same port for the exporter and RPC, and the URL is `/metrics`. So for the default deployment, the exporter URL is `host:1789/metrics`

## metrics types

#### VenusClusterInfo
`damocles-manager` sets this to 1 when it starts.

#### SectorManagerNewSector
This is the counter of new sectors created by the sector manager, with miner tags separating the stats of different miners.

#### SectorManagerPreCommitSector
This is the counter of the number of times of sector PreCommits by the sector manager, with miner tags separating the stats of different miners.

#### SectorManagerCommitSector
This is the counter of the number of times of sector commits by the sector manager, with miner tags separating the stats of different miners.

#### ProverWinningPostDuration
**Not yet enabled!**  
The prover side counter recording the durations of WinningPoSt, with miner tags separating the stats of different miners. The time is segmented into histograms in seconds.

#### ProverWindowPostDuration
**Not yet enabled!**  
The prover side counter recording the durations of WindowPoSt, with miner tags separating the stats of different miners. The time is segmented into histograms in seconds.

#### ProverWindowPostCompleteRate
**Not yet enabled!**  
This is a prover side counter recording the completion rate of WindowPoSt. It starts showing partition completion rates after entering the last 20 epochs from the current deadline. This metric shows 1 when not in countdown state and decimal completion rates when entered (for example, shows 0.9 when 9 out of 10 partitions have been submitted). It has miner tags to separate the stats of different miners.

#### APIRequestDuration
Integrates response times recorded by various `damocles-manager` APIs, segmented in ms into histograms.