# Support for sector rebuilding

When sector data is lost due to disk damage or other reasons, sector data can be recovered through sector rebuilding.

## Basic principle

`damocles-manager` saves information about sector piece files and applied random numbers. During sector rebuilding, `damocles-manager` will issue this information to `damocles-worker`, which then executes the sealing process. 


Refer to [The state flow of rebuild tasks](./11.task-status-flow.md#the-state-flow-of-rebuild-tasks) for a rough description of the process.

## Preparation

### 1. Gather information

Find the number of the sector that needs rebuilding and the miner it belongs to.

### 2. Modify `damocles-worker` configuration

There are two ways to modify the configuration:

The first one is to modify the main configuration file of `damocles-worker` and add a `sealing_thread` with `plan` set to rebuild or change the plan of an existing `sealing_thread` to rebuild. This way requires restarting `damocles-worker`. 

This is an example of the configuration:

```TOML
# /path/to/your-damocles-worker-config.toml

# ...
[[sealing_thread]]
location = "/path/to/your_sealing_thread_location/"
plan = "rebuild"
# ...
```

Another way is to create a `sealing_thread` hot update configuration file. Create a file named `config.toml` under the `location` directory of `sealing_thread` with the following contents:

```TOML
# /path/to/your_sealing_thread_location/config.toml

plan = "rebuild"
```

`damocles-worker` will load the hot update configuration file before starting the sector task. See [sealing_thread configuration hot reload](./03.damocles-worker-config.md#sealing_thread-configuration-hot-reload) for details.

### 3. Check `sealing_thread` status

Execute
```
damocles-worker worker list
```
The output might be similar to:
```
#0: "/path/to/your_sealing_thread_location"; plan=rebuild, sector_id=None, paused=false, paused_elapsed=None, state=Empty, last_err=None
// ...
```

Or 

```
damocles-manager util worker info  <worker instance name or address>
```
The output might be similar to:
```
Index  Loc                                    Plan     SectorID       Paused  PausedElapsed  State      LastErr
0      /path/to/your_sealing_thread_location  rebuild  NULL           false   NULL           Empty      NULL
// ...
```
If `plan` shows `rebuild`, then the configuration change succeeded. (Note: hot update configuration file may not take effect immediately; it loads when the sector task restarts)

## Start rebuilding

### 1. Create sector rebuild task

Execute  
```
damocles-manager util sealer sectors rebuild <miner actor> <sector number>
```
where `<miner actor>` is the miner ID and `<sector number>` is the number of the sector to rebuild.

E.g., for a miner with ID 1001 and a sector with number 123, we execute
```
damocles-manager util sealer sectors rebuild 1001 123
```

### 2. Observe the sealing state of the rebuilding sealing_thread and wait for rebuilding to complete

Execute

```
damocles-worker worker list
```

or

```
damocles-manager util worker info  <worker instance name or address>
```

to observe the state and information in the `last_err` field. The state field corresponds to the state in [rebuild task state flow](./11.task-status-flow.md#the-state-flow-of-rebuild-tasks).

You can also directly check the sector status information:
```shell
# Query pending sectors
damocles-manager util sealer sectors state <miner ID> <sector number>

# Query sealed sectors
damocles-manager util sealer sectors state --offline <miner ID> <sector number>
```
Here, `<miner ID>` is the miner ID and `<sector number>` is the number of the sector to rebuild.

## Other related commands

### Query information on all rebuilding sectors in progress
```
damocles-manager util sealer sectors list --rebuild --sealing=false
```

### Query information on all rebuilt sectors
```
damocles-manager util sealer sectors list --offline --rebuild --sealing=false
```